---
title: "Your Privacy Matters: Our Policy"
---

At UpRise, we believe in empowering volunteers to engage civically. That
mission starts by putting volunteers in control of their own personal
information. Our aim is for you to always feel informed and empowered
with respect to your privacy on UpRise.

Overview
------------

We are an online platform for volunteers and campaigns. Our registered
users (“Members”) share their volunteer identities, exchange knowledge
and insights, and find volunteer opportunities with campaigns. We aim
for our services to allow Members to achieve their full volunteering
potential. The cornerstone of our business is to focus on our Members
first.

We protect your personal information using industry-standard safeguards.
We may share your information with your consent or as required by law,
and we will always let you know when we make significant changes to this
Privacy Policy.

Maintaining your trust is our top priority, so we adhere to the
following principles to protect your privacy:

We protect your personal information and will only provide it to third
parties: (1) with your consent; (2) where it is necessary to carry out
your instructions; (3) as reasonably necessary in order to provide our
features and functionality to you; (4) when we reasonably believe it is
required by law, subpoena or other legal process; or (5) as necessary to
protect the rights, property, or safety of UpRise, our Members, and the
public.

**1. What information do we collect?**
------------

**1.1. Registration**

When you create an account with us, we collect information (including
your name, email address, and password).

**1.2. Profile Information**

We will be adding a personal volunteer profile into our platform, and we
will then collect information when you fill it out. . A complete UpRise
profile that includes your volunteering experience – like your previous
volunteering positions, organizations, and skills – will help you to be
found by campaigns for volunteering opportunities.

**1.3 Using the UpRise Site**

We collect information when you visit the UpRise website, such as the
device use to access our website and platform, including IP address.

**1.4. Cookies**

We use cookies and similar technologies to collect information to learn
about your interests and improve your experience, increase security, and
measure the use and effectiveness of UpRise.

**1.5. Log Files, IP Addresses, and Information About Your Computer and
Mobile Device**

We collect information from the devices and networks that you use to
access UpRise, such as the URL of the site from which you came, and the
IP address of your computer or the proxy server that you used to access
the Web. Most mobile devices may also send us location data, though they
generally allow you to prevent the device from sending this to us, and
we will of course honor your settings.

**2. What do we use your information for?**
-------------------------------------------

**2.1. Consent to UpRise Processing Information About You**

Should we collect your profile, you agree that information you provide
on it can be seen by others and used by us as described in this Privacy
Policy. You can withdraw or modify your consent to our collection and
processing of the information you provide at any time by changing your
account settings or your profile on UpRise or by closing your UpRise
account.

**2.2. UpRise Communications**

We may communicate with you using UpRise messaging, email, and
notifications. We may send you messages relating to the availability of
the UpRise services, security, or other service-related issues. We also
may send promotional messages to your UpRise inbox. You can change your
email settings at any time.

**2.3. User Communications**

With certain communications that you send on the UpRise platform, the
recipient can see your name, email address, and some network
information.

**2.4. Service Development; Customized Experience**

We use the information and content you provide to us to conduct research
and development and to customize your experience and try to make it
relevant and useful to you.

**2.5. Sharing Information with Third Parties**

We don’t provide any of your non-public information (like your email
address) to third parties without your consent, unless required by law.

**2.6. Search**

Our services help you search for other volunteers, political campaigns,
organizations, and opportunities. We use personal information from the
UpRise platform, including Member profiles and campaign pages, to inform
and refine our search service.

**2.7. Testimonials on UpRise website or platform**

If you provide any testimonials about our goods or services, we may post
those testimonials to our website with your permission or with our own
promotion of UpRise to third parties. Testimonials may include your name
and other personal information that you have provided.

**2.8. Volunteer Recruiting and Marketing**

We will offer a service to campaigns which can be used to search for,
organize, and communicate with potential volunteers or offer
volunteering opportunities. In some cases we will allow the export of
public profile information. You can control how your information is
exported by changing which parts of your public profile are accessible
to search engines.

**2.9. Pages for Campaigns, Organizations, and Other Entities**

Companies and other entities can create pages on the UpRise platform. If
you follow one of these pages, information about you will be provided to
the page’s administrators where needed to provide services.

**2.10. Compliance with Legal Process and Other Disclosures**

We may disclose your personal information if compelled by law, subpoena,
or other legal process.

**2.11. Service Providers**

We may employ third party companies and individuals to facilitate our
services (e.g. maintenance, analysis, audit, marketing and development).
These third parties have limited access to your information only to
perform these tasks on our behalf and are obligated to UpRise not to
disclose or use it for other purposes.

**3. Your Choices & Obligations**
---------------------------------

**3.1. Rights to Access, Correct, or Delete Your Information, and
Closing Your Account**

You can change your UpRise information at any time by editing settings
(or your profile if there is one), deleting content that you have
posted, or by closing your account. You can also ask us for additional
information we may have about your account.

**3.2. Data Retention**

We keep your information for as long as your account is active or as
needed. For example, we may keep certain information even after you
close your account if it is necessary to comply with our legal
obligations, meet regulatory requirements, resolve disputes, prevent
fraud and abuse, or enforce this agreement.

**4. How Do We Protect Your Information?**
------------------------------------------

**4.1. Security**

We take privacy and security seriously and have enabled HTTPS access to
our site, in addition to existing SSL access over mobile devices. Also,
please know that the Internet is not a secure environment, so be careful
and select strong passwords. We have implemented security safeguards
designed to protect the personal information that you provide in
accordance with industry standards. Access to your data on our Services
is password-protected. We also offer secure https access to the
UpRise.org website. To protect any data you store on our servers, we
also regularly monitor our system for possible vulnerabilities and
attacks, and we use a tier-one secured-access data center. However,
since the Internet is not a 100% secure environment, we cannot ensure or
warrant the security of any information that you transmit to us. There
is no guarantee that information may not be accessed, disclosed,
altered, or destroyed by breach of any of our physical, technical, or
managerial safeguards. It is your responsibility to protect the security
of your login information. Please note that emails, messaging, and other
means of communication with other Members are not encrypted, and we
strongly advise you not to communicate any confidential information
through these means. Please help keep your account safe by using a
strong password.

**4.2. California's Shine the Light Law**

We don’t share any of your personal information with third parties for
direct marketing. California Civil Code Section 1798.83, known as the
“Shine The Light” law, permits our customers who are California
residents to request and obtain from us a list of what personal
information (if any) we disclosed to third parties for direct marketing
purposes in the preceding calendar year and the names and addresses of
those third parties. Requests may be made only once a year and are free
of charge. Under Section 1798.83, we currently do not share any personal
information with third parties for their direct marketing purposes.

**5. Changes to this privacy policy**
-------------------------------------

We will notify you when we change this Privacy Policy, which may change
from time to time. Please review such changes carefully. If you agree to
the changes, simply continue to use UpRise. If you object to any of the
changes to our terms and you no longer wish to use UpRise, you may close
your account(s). Unless stated otherwise, our current Privacy Policy
applies to all information that we have about you and your account.
Using UpRise after a notice of changes has been communicated to you or
published on the UpRise platform shall constitute consent to the changed
terms or practices.

How To Contact Us
-------------------

### If you have questions or concerns regarding this Policy, you should contact UpRise online:

help@uprise.org

### or by physical mail (for Members in the United States) at:

UpRise Campaigns, SPC: Privacy Policy Issues

1442A Walnut St \#149

Berkeley, CA 94709

USA
